import { ProjectSection } from "@/app/projects/components/components";

import SecButton from "@/app/ui/secbutton";

export const data = {
  title: "Dungeon Mystery",
  date: "October 2024",
  type: "generative game design",
  medium: "JavaScript, Deno, OpenAI API",
  description:
    "An ode to the original Rogue, Dungeon Mystery is an AI-driven terminal game that offers a completely new story and characters each time the game is played.",
  link: "https://github.com/ana-konzen/dungeon-mystery",
  linkTitle: "GitHub Repo",
  heroIsVideo: true,
};

<ProjectSection images={["/dungeon-mystery/1.png"]}>

## The Original Rogue

Published in 1980, Rogue is a dungeon-crawler video game that inspired Dungeon
Mystery. It differed itself from its contemporaries by being completely
procedurally generated: no game is ever the same.

</ProjectSection>

<ProjectSection videos={[{ url: "/dungeon-mystery/game-over.mp4" }]}>

## the ultimate rogue-like?

I took Rogue’s original idea and amplified it by creating a terminal game that’s
completely automatically generated. The story's plot, characters, and overall
mystery are all AI-generated, and never the same.

## 1980s aesthetics

Although Dungeon Mystery uses cutting-edge technology (AI), the interface is
intentionally old-school, following the design of 80s terminal games and the
original Rogue.

</ProjectSection>

<ProjectSection videos={[{ url: "/dungeon-mystery/next-room.mp4" }]}>

## the game

Dungeon Mystery follows a very simple structure: there are five chambers in the
dungeon, each of them with one character and a locked door to the next chamber.
The player must interact with the character—who has a specific mission for the
player, be it a riddle or a question about what the player has learned so far—to
gain their trust. Once the character’s trust is gained, the character will give
the player the key to the next room.

</ProjectSection>

<ProjectSection videos={[{ url: "/dungeon-mystery/game-start.mp4" }]}>

## code structure

When a new game is loaded, ChatGPT will create the structure for the game
through a structured output where it describes the game’s overall plot as well
as details about each character. Every character has access to the basic
information about the game and themselves, as well as a chat history. I
leveraged ChatGPT’s Function calling capabilities to implement the trust score
feature: every time the player answers something, the AI will decide whether the
trust level increased, decreased, or remained the same—and call the appropriate
function.

</ProjectSection>

<ProjectSection videos={[{ url: "/dungeon-mystery/play.mp4", controls: true }]}>

## Walkthrough

This is an example playthrough of the game. To play it yourself, feel free to
clone my repo on GitHub! But please keep in mind that the game is still a work
in progress and not optimized for all terminals.

<SecButton
  label="GitHub Repo"
  href="https://github.com/ana-konzen/dungeon-mystery"
/>

</ProjectSection>
